Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Semi-inductive dataset construction and
framework optimization for practical drug
target interaction prediction with ScopeDTI
Yigang Chen 1,2,3,7, Xiang Ji 1,2,7, Ziyue Zhang1,2,7, Zihao Zhu1,2,7, Yuming Zhou1
,
Chang Su1
, Yang-Chi-Dung Lin1,2,3,4, Hsi-Yuan Huang1,2,4, Kangping Wei1
, Yi Lai1,2,
Ke Chen1,2, Xingqiao Lin1
, Yangyi Zhang1
, Jiehui Fu1
, Yixian Huang 1,2,
Shidong Cui1,2, Shih-Chung Yen1,2, Tao Zhang 3
, Arieh Warshel 5 &
Hsien-Da Huang 1,2,3,4,6
Deep learning-based drug-target interaction (DTI) prediction methods have
demonstrated strong performance; however, real-world applicability remains
constrained by limited data diversity and modeling complexity. To address
these challenges, we propose SCOPE-DTI, a unified framework combining a
large-scale, balanced semi-inductive human DTI dataset with advanced deep
learning modeling. SCOPE-DTI is constructed from 13 public repositories and
expands data volume by up to 100-fold compared to common benchmarks
such as the Human dataset. The SCOPE model integrates three-dimensional
protein and compound representations, graph neural networks, and bilinear
attention mechanisms to effectively capture cross domain interaction patterns
and outperform state-of-the-art methods across various DTI prediction tasks.
Additionally, SCOPE-DTI provides a user-friendly interface and database. We
further demonstrate its effectiveness by experimentally identifying anticancer
targets of two bioactive natural compounds. By offering comprehensive data,
advanced modeling, and accessible tools, SCOPE-DTI accelerates drug dis￾covery research.
Identifying drug-target interactions (DTIs) is essential for drug dis￾covery, drug repurposing, toxicity prediction, and improving the
success rate of clinical trials1–4
. For decades, experimental approaches
have dominated DTI identification due to their high accuracy and
reliability5
. However, their high cost and extensive time requirements
limit scalability, especially considering the immense chemical and
biological search spaces6
.
The accumulation of extensive experimental datasets has enabled
the development of data-driven computational methods7,8
. Machine
learning-based approaches leverage these large-scale datasets to learn
and generalize interaction patterns, facilitating rapid and cost￾effective prediction of previously uncharacterized drug-target inter￾actions (DTIs). These computational models provide efficient predic￾tions, guiding experimental validation toward the most promising
Received: 8 April 2025
Accepted: 29 October 2025
Check for updates
1
School of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. 2
Warshel Institute for Computational
Biology, School of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. 3
Better Way Group—Chinese
University of Hong Kong (Shenzhen) Warshel Joint Laboratory for skin health and active molecule innovation, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong,
China. 4
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Digital Biology and Drug Development, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, Longgang District,
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. 5
Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA. 6
Department of Endocrinology, Key
Laboratory of Endocrinology of National Health Commission, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union
Medical College, Beijing, People’s Republic of China. 7
These authors contributed equally: Yigang Chen, Xiang Ji, Ziyue Zhang, Zihao Zhu.
e-mail: huanghsienda@cuhk.edu.cn
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 1
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;
candidate interactions, thereby accelerating drug discovery and sig￾nificantly reducing associated costs9
.
Recent advances in deep learning have significantly advanced
computational DTI prediction. Proteochemometrics (PCM), a widely
used computational framework, represents drugs and targets as fea￾ture vectors to predict DTIs through supervised classification10.
Embedding methods for molecules and proteins have rapidly evolved
along two parallel fronts. Sequence-based approaches have advanced
from one-dimensional convolutional neural networks11,12 to powerful
pre-trained foundation models (FM) like BERT that capture deep
semantic context6,13,14. Concurrently, structure-awared methods have
progressed from 2D topological representations using graph neural
networks (GNNs)15,16 to embeddings that explicitly model 3D spatial
arrangements17,18. Alongside these advances in representation, model
architectures have evolved from simple multilayer perceptrons (MLPs)
to interactive mechanisms like interaction maps19 and bilinear atten￾tion networks (BANs)15. These innovations have enabled state-of-the￾art models to achieve notable performance improvements on standard
benchmarks, including BindingDB20,21, human22, and KIBA datasets23.
However, substantial challenges remain when applying these
models in practical settings. In practical drug discovery applications,
accurately predicting interactions between previously uncharacter￾ized compounds and druggable targets is essential. Therefore, models
must demonstrate the ability to achieve reliable predictive perfor￾mance even when operating beyond the limitations of their training
data. Chatterjee et al.24 categorize drug-target interaction (DTI) pre￾diction into three distinct scenarios: transductive, semi-inductive, and
inductive. The inductive scenario, where both drugs and proteins are
absent from the training set, is crucial for previously uncharacterized
DTI discovery but remains highly challenging. Current state-of-the-art
models under inductive conditions achieve only moderate predictive
accuracy, with AUROC typically below 0.7 and correlation coefficients
below 0.515,17, limiting their practical utility. Conversely, the transduc￾tive scenario, where both drugs and proteins are present in the training
set but their interactions are unknown, yields high performance but is
often compromised by overfitting and dataset biases21,25, thus
restricting generalization to real-world tasks.
In contrast, the semi-inductive scenario-particularly the predic￾tion of interactions involving previously uncharacterized drugs against
known proteins—offers significant potential compared to purely
inductive or transductive approaches17,24. Although current models
perform well in such scenarios, their success remains limited by the
size and diversity of available data. Expanding and integrating existing
datasets to encompass more druggable targets could substantially
enhance predictive accuracy and real-world applicability, enlightening
the practical value of the semi-inductive approach.
In this work, we present SCOPE-DTI, a unified framework that
enhances the practical utility of DTI prediction models. We construct a
large, well-balanced semi-inductive human DTI dataset by integrating
data from 13 public repositories, expanding available training data
20–100-fold compared to standard benchmarks20,21. Using this dataset,
the SCOPE model incorporates three-dimensional structural embed￾dings, graph neural networks, and a bilinear attention mechanism to
capture cross-domain interaction patterns and achieve improved
predictive performance over state-of-the-art methods across diverse
tasks. In addition, we provide a user-friendly web interface and
searchable database to facilitate accessibility. We further demonstrate
the effectiveness of SCOPE-DTI by experimentally validating pre￾viously uncharacterized anti-cancer targets of Ginsenoside Rh1 and
Celastrol, underscoring its real-world applicability in drug discovery.
Results
SCOPE dataset development
Our study aims to predict DTIs for previously uncharacterized com￾pounds within a semi-inductive framework, addressing the critical
question: Given any previously uncharacterized active compound,
how can we accurately identify its binding targets across a compre￾hensive set of druggable proteins? To tackle this challenge, we con￾structed a large-scale, high-quality human-focused DTI dataset.
As illustrated in Fig. 1A, we aggregated and curated data from 13
primary DTI repositories, integrating information from over 20 sour￾ces in total, including referenced datasets (Supplementary Table 1).
Each dataset entry comprises a protein, a compound, and an interac￾tion label. Proteins were annotated using UniProt identifiers26, retain￾ing only human proteins, and categorized into pharmacological
families (e.g., GPCRs, kinases) according to the IUPHAR database27. To
enable structural modeling, we generated 3D protein structures using
AlphaFold228. Compounds were annotated with identifiers from
PubChem29 and ChEMBL30, and their 3D structures were constructed
using RDKit and optimized with the Merck Molecular Force Field
(MMFF)31. Interaction labels were systematically assigned using stan￾dardized measurement-specific cutoff values derived from PubChem
Bioactivity data, classifying interactions as positive (1) or negative (0)
(Supplementary Fig. 1; Supplementary Table 2). Additional details on
labeling methods are described in Supplementary Note 1.
Recognizing that target-level class imbalance—where certain
proteins predominantly display interactions from one class—could
bias semi-inductive predictions, we implemented a filtering approach
(Fig. 1B). For proteins whose interactions exceeded 75% from a single
class, we randomly removed interactions using stratified sampling,
balancing the classes within a 50–75% range. Proteins with insufficient
interactions or skewed class distributions were entirely excluded to
maintain dataset integrity. Figure 1C illustrates that this filtering
approach significantly mitigated imbalance, ensuring a more balanced
distribution of interaction labels across targets (Supplementary Note 2
and Supplementary Fig. 2 provide further details).
To further assess the dataset’s relevance to the druggable pro￾teome, we analyzed its coverage of major pharmacological families
(Fig. 1D). For kinases and nuclear hormone receptors (NHRs),
SCOPE dataset demonstrates exceptional coverage, encompassing the
vast majority of known proteins in these families, a feature largely
preserved post-filtering. This high retention suggests a wealth of rich
and relatively balanced interaction data for these well-studied targets.
In contrast, while the initial dataset for ion channels (ICs) was sub￾stantial, the number of proteins was moderately reduced after filtering,
indicating that some members suffer from sparser or highly skewed
interaction data. Notably, the coverage for G-protein-coupled recep￾tors (GPCRs) is more limited, reflecting a comparative scarcity of
public interaction data and underscoring GPCRs as a critical family
warranting further investigation and data curation efforts.
Finally, we quantitatively compared the resulting SCOPE dataset
with widely used benchmarks (Fig. 1E), revealing a substantial increase
in scale—20- to 100-fold more interactions, accompanied by sig￾nificantly more proteins and compounds. Detailed dataset statistics
are summarized in Supplementary Table 3. Overall, to our knowledge,
SCOPE represents the large, most balanced semi-inductive human DTI
dataset available, providing a robust foundation for developing and
validating predictive models for previously uncharacterized drug￾target interactions.
SCOPE framework
Figure 2 provides a schematic illustration of the proposed SCOPE-DTI
framework for predicting drug-target interactions. The framework
begins with the transformation of drug molecules and target proteins
from the SCOPE dataset into their respective three-dimensional (3D)
conformations, generated using RDKit for compounds and AlphaFold2
for proteins. To effectively capture the complex structural features of
both proteins and compounds, their 3D structures are encoded using
heterogeneous graph neural networks (HGNNs)32,33 and geometric
vector perceptrons (GVPs)17,34, respectively. The protein encoding
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 2
module simultaneously encodes the sequential relationships among
residues and their spatial neighborhood information captured via
radius graphs constructed from residue coordinates. The compound
encoding incorporates atom-specific features (atom type, charge,
hybridization state) defined by DGL-LifeSci’s encoding scheme35, along
with spatial coordinates representing their 3D structural information.
Further details of these encoding methods are provided in Supple￾mentary Table 4.
To account for the scale disparity between small molecules and
large proteins, atom-level features were aggregated via global pooling
BindingDB Dataset
SCOPE Dataset
B
D
Original
Filtered
ChEMBL
PubChem ChEMBL BindingDB
TTD DrugBank DrugCentral
Pharos PROMISCUOUS PPRRROOMMIISSCCUUO...UUS20+ Sources
Drug Target Interaction Data Sources
UniProt Human Protein
Annotation
IUPHAR
Pharmacological
Target Family
Annotation
Protein 3D
Structure Generated
by Alphafold2
PubChem Compound ID
Annotation
Compound
3D Generation
and
MMFF 
Optimization
• IC50 < 10000 nM
• Inhibition > 50 %
• Ki < 10000 nM
• Kd < 10000 nM
And So On
Criteria for DTI Labeling
...
SCOPE Original Dataset
Multi-Source Integration
SCOPE Filtered Dataset
Mitigate target-level interaction imbalance
A
AF2DB
RDKit
C
Protein i Protein i Negative
Interactions
Positive
Interactions
Drop
Slight 
Imbalance
Severe
Imbalance
E No. Compounds No. Proteins No. Interactions Druggable Protein Coverage in SCOPE Dataset
Fig. 1 | Overview of the SCOPE dataset construction pipeline and data char￾acteristics. A Schematic representation of the data integration and preprocessing
steps used to construct the SCOPE dataset. Molecular structures were visualized
using ChemDraw and Chem3D. The protein structures were visualized using
PyMOL. B Strategy to mitigate target-level imbalance: for proteins dominated by
one class, we randomly remove interactions to achieve balance; in extreme cases,
we discard all of that protein’s interactions. C The effect of data filtering. The red
and green distributions represent datasets before and after filtering, respectively.
D The analysis of the coverage of different target protein families in the SCOPE
dataset. E Comparison of data volume between SCOPE and previous datasets in
terms of the number of compounds, targets, and interactions separately. Source
data are provided as a Source Data file.
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 3 Compounds Compounds
to generate fixed-size molecular representations for downstream
processing. These pooled molecular vectors are then combined with
the encoded protein representations and fed into a BAN. This network
comprises a bilinear attention layer, followed by a bilinear pooling
layer, enabling the model to capture cross-domain interactions
between the drug and the target protein residues15. Ultimately, the
combined representations are passed through an MLP classifier, which
computes the final predictive score, representing the probability of a
drug-target interaction.
Evaluation strategies and metrics
We evaluated the classification performance of our model using three
publicly available datasets—BindingDB20,21, human22, and KIBA23—as
well as our proprietary SCOPE dataset. Our evaluation simulates a real￾world scenario by adopting a strict semi-inductive framework, where
models must predict interactions for previously uncharacterized
compounds against a known set of target proteins (Fig. 3A). To achieve
this, we partitioned datasets exclusively by compound, randomly
assigning them to training, validation, and test sets (7:1:2 ratio). This
approach guarantees that while the test set contains compounds
unseen during training, the entire protein vocabulary remains con￾sistent across all data splits. Detailed information about the dataset
splits is provided in Supplementary Note 3.
We utilized the area under the receiver operating characteristic
curve (AUROC) and the area under the precision-recall curve (AUPRC)
as the primary metrics for assessing classification performance. Addi￾tionally, we reported accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity at the
threshold corresponding to the optimal F1 score. To ensure robust￾ness, we performed at least five independent runs with different
random seeds for each dataset split. The model that achieved the
highest AUROC on the validation set was selected for final evaluation
on the test set, and the performance metrics were then recorded.
Performance comparison
A persistent challenge in DTI prediction is the risk of performance
inflation from dataset biases. We first investigated the impact of target￾level class imbalance, a common issue where a target’s known inter￾actions are overwhelmingly positive or negative. To isolate the effect
of this bias, we conducted a controlled experiment on the BindingDB
dataset with the SCOPE model (Fig. 3B). The original, imbalanced data
yielded an optimistic AUROC, which was further inflated under a “label
polarization" control that intentionally maximized this bias. In con￾trast, our proposed “label balancing" filter produced a more realistic
AUROC baseline. Importantly, both the label-balanced and label￾polarized datasets were constructed to have a similar overall class
balance and sample size, confirming that the observed performance
gap stems directly from the per-target bias distribution rather than
dataset size or global imbalance. This result validates our filtering
strategy as essential for a fair and rigorous evaluation, which we
applied to all subsequent experiments.
Having established a robust evaluation framework, we next
assessed whether our newly constructed SCOPE dataset provides a
superior benchmark. We performed a head-to-head comparison
focused on the kinase target family, pitting the widely used KIBA
dataset against our SCOPE Kinase dataset (Fig. 3C). This ensures that
performance differences are attributable to data quality and scale
within a similar biological context. Across all tested models, perfor￾mance on the SCOPE Kinase dataset was consistently and significantly
Fig. 2 | Schematic representation of the SCOPE model for drug-target interac￾tion prediction. The SCOPE model integrates 3D structural information of proteins
and compounds to predict drug-target interactions. To capture intricate structural
features, the 3D protein structures and molecular graphs are encoded using het￾erogeneous graph neural networks (HGNNs) and geometric vector perceptrons
(GVPs) with global pooling. These encoded representations are then processed
through a bilinear attention network, which consists of a bilinear attention layer
followed by bilinear pooling, to generate a joint representation that models local
interactions between the drug and the target protein. The final predictive score is
computed by a fully connected classification layer, representing the likelihood of
an interaction. Molecular structures were visualized using ChemDraw and Chem3D.
The protein structures were visualized using PyMOL. Source data are provided as a
Source Data file.
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 4
higher. This finding is further supported by a scaling analysis, which
shows a clear positive correlation between data volume and model
performance (Supplementary Fig. 3 and Supplementary Note 4). This
demonstrates that the increased scale and richer data curated in
SCOPE dataset translate directly into a higher-quality benchmark,
enabling more powerful and generalizable models.
We then expanded our analysis to dissect the robustness of dif￾ferent model architectures under this rigorous framework. Our
benchmark suite included classical models (SVM)36, simple deep
learning models (MLP)37, and four state-of-the-art architectures:
MolTrans19 and TransformerCPI25, which use simple transformers;
BertDTI14, which leverages pre-trained FMs; and DrugBAN15, which
introduced a Bilinear Attention Network (BAN). As shown in Fig. 3D,
the balancing filter and semi-inductive split acted as powerful differ￾entiators. The simpler transformer-based models (MolTrans, Trans￾formerCPI) proved brittle, suffering substantial performance
degradation after filtering, indicating their reliance on dataset arti￾facts. The FM-based BertDTI showed greater resilience on larger
datasets but still experienced a notable performance drop on smaller
ones like Human or BindingDB. In contrast, models employing the BAN
architecture—DrugBAN and our SCOPE model—demonstrated
exceptional stability across all datasets, regardless of size. This high￾lights the critical role of the BAN module in achieving robust DTI
prediction.
To provide a definitive quantitative assessment, we summarized
the average AUROC of all models across the eight filtered datasets
(Table 1). The results chronicle a clear and consistent performance
improvement driven by advances in both molecular encoding and
feature fusion technologies. The technological progression reveals
several key insights. While a basic transformer architecture like Mol￾Trans did not offer a significant leap in peak performance over a simple
Deep MLP, it provided a notable improvement in training stability and
convergence consistency, albeit at the cost of substantially increased
computational overhead. Performance and stability only improved
with the introduction of richer, graph-based embeddings, as seen in
TransformerCPI. A major leap in performance, however, came with the
advent of more sophisticated methods. The pre-training and fine￾tuning paradigm of BertDTI, the advanced fusion mechanism of
DrugBAN, and our 3D encoding with a BAN module each propelled
model performance to a level of practical applicability. Within this top
tier, the benefits of 3D structural information became decisive,
allowing SCOPE model to achieve state-of-the-art performance across
Fig. 3 | Evaluating DTI model performance changes on multiple datasets under
a bias-aware, semi-inductive setting. A The semi-inductive compound evaluation
framework. B Target-level class imbalance inflates model performance. Our Label
Balancing (pink) corrects this bias, providing a realistic benchmark, while a Label
Polarization control (yellow) confirms that high AUROC on unfiltered data is an
artifact. C Models achieve superior AUROC on the larger, filtered SCOPE Kinase
dataset compared to the standard KIBA benchmark, demonstrating the value of our
curated data. D Overall performance before and after filtering. Filtering reveals the
brittleness of simpler models, whereas advanced models, especially our 3D-aware
SCOPE model, demonstrate robust and superior performance on the more realistic
filtered datasets. Each bar represents the mean performance over n = 5 indepen￾dent training runs performed with different random seeds and dataset splits. Error
bars indicate ± standard deviation (SD). Central values correspond to the mean.
Source data are provided as a Source Data file.
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 5
all eight datasets. A comprehensive analysis, including additional
metrics, is provided in the Supplementary Notes and Supplementary
Tables. Notably, this robust superiority is achieved with remarkable
efficiency; our model’s computational requirements are comparable to
those of DrugBAN and significantly lower than resource-intensive FM￾based methods (Supplementary Note 5). These findings confirm that
by integrating 3D structural information with an advanced attention
mechanism, SCOPE model establishes a state-of-the-art system that is
not only highly accurate and robust but also computationally efficient.
Ablation study
We conducted an ablation study to assess the individual contributions
of protein encoding, compound encoding, and backbone design to the
overall performance of the SCOPE model. Table 2 summarizes the key
findings, highlighting the critical role each module plays in the model’s
effectiveness, with detailed experimental results provided in Supple￾mentary Table 7.
To evaluate the impact of compound encoding using the 3D
Graph GVP, we constructed three variants of the SCOPE model, each
employing different compound encoding methods: 1D fingerprint, 2D
Graph15, and 3D Graph GVP without global pooling, where the max￾imum atom size was set to 300. The results demonstrate that
increasing the representational dimension of the compounds led to a
significant improvement in model performance. Notably, the inclusion
of pooled molecular encoding resulted in an over 1% performance
gain, highlighting the critical role of pooling techniques in enhancing
molecular representations. Notably, our analysis shows that the choice
of compound encoder has a negligible impact on the overall compu￾tational cost (Supplementary Note 5).
For protein encoding, we conducted a comparative analysis of our
proposed 3D Graph HGNN architecture against two alternative 1D
methods: One-hot encoding and a CNN-based approach15. Our 3D
architecture leverages protein structures derived from AlphaFold; we
chose this path because we posit that incorporating 3D information is a
crucial step towards creating more physically realistic and accurate
models, a strategic choice we elaborate on in Supplementary Note 6.
The ablation results revealed a nuanced performance landscape. The
1D CNN-based encoding performed surprisingly well, achieving results
comparable to our 3D design and even outperforming it on the F1
score. However, our 3D Graph HGNN architecture maintained a dis￾tinct advantage in both AUROC and AUPRC, the primary metrics for
this task. This suggests that while 1D methods can effectively capture
sequence-level patterns, the 3D design unlocks access to critical
structural information that ultimately leads to superior predictive
power. This performance gain from 3D features, however, comes with
a computational trade-off. As we dissect in detail in Supplementary
Note 5, this is primarily an I/O overhead from loading the large struc￾tural embeddings, rather than a model complexity issue.
Finally, we examined the impact of the BAN layer within the
backbone. Remarkably, removing the BAN layer caused a substantial
drop in performance, bringing it to levels comparable to DrugBAN,
which utilizes a 1D CNN and a 2D Graph for protein and compound
encoding. This underscores the significance of both the encoding
strategies and the backbone design in achieving optimal model per￾formance. The efficiency of the BAN module itself ensures that the
primary computational trade-off lies within the data encoding, not the
fusion architecture.
In summary, the ablation study confirms the critical contributions
of each module in the SCOPE model, validating the importance of its
overall design and its role in improving performance.
Webserver and database
To enhance accessibility and usability, we have developed a webserver
and database for the SCOPE framework, accessible at https://awi.cuhk.
edu.cn/SCOPE/. The platform allows users to input a SMILES string of a
compound to perform search or prediction tasks. In search mode, the
server identifies and returns all compounds from the SCOPE dataset
with a structural similarity greater than 0.9 to the input molecule,
Table 1 | Average AUROC performance of SCOPE and six baseline models across eight filtered datasets
SVM Deep MLP MolTrans TransformerCPI BertDTI DrugBAN SCOPE
Method 1D+SVM 1D+MLP 1D+transformer 2D+transformer FM+MLP 2D+BAN 3D+BAN
BindingDB 0.600 ± 0.102 0.711 ± 0.104 0.560 ± 0.029 0.622 ± 0.008 0.748 ± 0.022 0.865 ± 0.018 0.888 ± 0.013
Human 0.581 ± 0.151 0.785 ± 0.026 NaN 0.676 ± 0.037 0.760 ± 0.023 0.854 ± 0.041 0.877 ± 0.043
KIBA 0.560 ± 0.051 0.766 ± 0.016 0.682 ± 0.055 0.640 ± 0.012 0.811 ± 0.010 0.798 ± 0.008 0.819 ± 0.013
Kinase NaN 0.607 ± 0.123 0.713 ± 0.020 0.805 ± 0.022 0.824 ± 0.012 0.862 ± 0.020 0.885 ± 0.025
GPCR NaN 0.707 ± 0.054 0.649 ± 0.011 0.649 ± 0.005 0.865 ± 0.003 0.856 ± 0.028 0.882 ± 0.022
NHR NaN 0.688 ± 0.137 0.444 ± 0.051 0.614 ± 0.035 0.853 ± 0.007 0.848 ± 0.021 0.872 ± 0.035
IC NaN 0.792 ± 0.019 0.492 ± 0.010 0.638 ± 0.020 0.838 ± 0.004 0.841 ± 0.013 0.862 ± 0.021
Total NaN 0.533 ± 0.072 NaN 0.717 ± 0.006 0.855 ± 0.004 0.857 ± 0.005 0.875 ± 0.014
The comparison spans from sequence-based (1D) and graph-based (2D) methods to more advanced approaches using Foundation Models (FM) and 3D structures with different feature fusion
methods, demonstrating the effectiveness of incorporating higher-dimensional structural information (Best, Second Best).
Table 2 | Ablation study on the filtered SCOPE dataset (averaged over five random runs)
Protein encoding Compound encoding Backbone AUROC AUPRC F1
3D Graph HGNN 1D Fingerprint BAN+MLP 0.829 ± 0.012 0.841 ± 0.015 0.771 ± 0.019
3D Graph HGNN 2D Graph BAN+MLP 0.859 ± 0.015 0.873 ± 0.015 0.785 ± 0.016
3D Graph HGNN 3D Graph GVP no Pooling BAN+MLP 0.860 ± 0.014 0.874 ± 0.014 0.786 ± 0.015
1D Onehot 3D Graph GVP BAN+MLP 0.827 ± 0.016 0.846 ± 0.017 0.758 ± 0.012
1D CNN 3D Graph GVP BAN+MLP 0.873 ± 0.008 0.871 ± 0.007 0.806 ± 0.010
3D Graph HGNN 3D Graph GVP MLP 0.859 ± 0.024 0.857 ± 0.025 0.789 ± 0.026
3D Graph HGNN 3D Graph GVP BAN+MLP 0.875 ± 0.014 0.888 ± 0.013 0.803 ± 0.016
The first three models evaluate the compound embedding design, followed by two models assessing the protein embedding design. The impact of the Bilinear Attention Network (BAN) layer is
shown in the subsequent model. The final model integrates all components of the SCOPE design (Best, Second Best).
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 6
calculated using RDKit. In prediction mode, the input molecule is
paired with all proteins in the SCOPE library, providing interaction
predictions with semi-inductive accuracy. Additionally, the complete
SCOPE dataset is available for direct download from the website.
Detailed information about the web development process and user
instructions can be found in Supplementary Note 8 and Supplemen￾tary Fig. 4.
Model interpretability
As shown in Fig. 4A, prediction accuracy improves progressively with
an increasing number of recorded protein interactions, highlighting
the critical importance of sufficient DTI data for robust model training.
Proteins with limited known interactions exhibit considerable varia￾bility in predictive performance, whereas accuracy stabilizes at
approximately 0.8-0.9 as interaction data expands.
To further explore this relationship, we examined four repre￾sentative proteins (Fig. 4B). Proteins O43826 and P42224, character￾ized by fewer known interactions, displayed lower predictive accuracy.
In contrast, proteins P46095 and P28482, benefiting from richer
datasets, achieved consistently higher accuracy. Interaction embed￾dings derived from the BAN attention module were analyzed using
UMAP38 for dimensionality reduction and OPTICS39 for clustering.
Proteins with extensive interaction data (P46095 and P28482)
demonstrated clear, distinct clusters, indicating that the model effec￾tively captures meaningful binding features. Conversely, sparse inter￾action data for O43826 and P42224 resulted in indistinct or no
observable clusters, reflecting difficulties in recognizing consistent
binding patterns.
A deeper analysis of docking results for the GPCR protein P46095
(Fig. 4C) revealed that clusters identified by the model correspond to
chemically distinct binding modes within the canonical binding
pocket. Specifically, interactions in clusters 1, 2, and 4 commonly
involved residues 79, 128, 132, 145, 219, 220, 312, and 315, while unique
residues 295 and 304 characterized cluster 1, and residue 141 was
distinctive for cluster 2. These findings confirm that our model cap￾tures nuanced and chemically relevant features governing ligand
specificity.
Further examination of proteins with relatively low predictive
accuracy (Fig. 4D) revealed additional complexity. Protein O43826,
despite an accuracy of around 0.7, had five known ligands adopting
significantly different binding poses within the same pocket, compli￾cating the identification of consistent patterns. Similarly, protein
P42224 (accuracy <0.6) had limited ligand binding in various orienta￾tions and distinct pockets, presenting significant modeling challenges.
Collectively, these analyses emphasize the necessity of sufficient
and diverse interaction data to enable accurate predictions of drug￾target interactions. They also illustrate the interpretative capability of
our model, highlighting its ability to identify both global and ligand￾specific binding features critical for understanding molecular inter￾actions. For further methodological details and additional analyses,
see the Supplementary Note 7.
Efficient target discovery for bioactive natural compounds using
SCOPE-DTI
Natural products have historically served as an important source of
therapeutic agents and continue to garner significant attention in
Fig. 4 | Interpretability analysis of the model. A Relationship between predictive
performance and the number of known interactions per protein. As more known
interactions are identified, accuracy stabilizes around 0.8-0.9, whereas fewer
known interactions lead to greater variability. B UMAP-OPTICS clustering of BAN
attention vectors for four representative proteins: two with robust predictive
performance (P46095 and P28482) and two with lower accuracy (O43826 and
P42224). Proteins enriched with interaction data (P46095 and P28482) exhibit clear
clustering, suggesting that the model captures common binding features. In con￾trast, proteins with limited data (O43826 and P42224) do not show discernible
clusters. C Docking analysis of ligands binding to P46095, highlighting shared and
unique interaction residues across distinct ligand clusters. Unique critical residues
are marked in blue and yellow, and universally important residues are shown in
purple, indicating both global and cluster-specific binding determinants. Protein
structure was visualized using PyMOL. D Analysis of proteins with relatively lower
predictive accuracy. Although O43826 achieves an accuracy of about 0.7, its five
known ligands—despite targeting the same pocket—adopt highly divergent poses,
impeding a clear consensus. In the case of P42224 (accuracy <0.6), the small
number of known ligands not only bind in differing orientations but also occupy
distinct pockets, challenging the model’s predictive capability. Source data are
provided as a Source Data file.
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 7
modern drug discovery40. These compounds often possess complex
chemical scaffolds and exert their biological effects not through a
single, high-affinity target, but by modulating a network of targets with
moderate affinities to produce a systems-level response. This poly￾pharmacological profile, while therapeutically advantageous, makes
their target identification a formidable challenge, rendering them ideal
test cases for advanced predictive models like SCOPE-DTI. We there￾fore selected two representative anti-cancer natural products for our
validation study: Ginsenoside Rh1, a major in vivo metabolite of the
widely studied ginsenosides41–43, and Celastrol, a potent bioactive
compound from Tripterygium wilfordii known for its strong anti￾cancer effects and multi-target mechanism44. As a first step, we eval￾uated the cytotoxic effects of Rh1 and Celastrol on HepG2 cells using
the CCK-8 assay. As shown in Fig. 5A and Supplementary Table 8, the
IC50 value of Rh1 was determined to be 32.04 μM. Celastrol exhibited
substantially higher potency, with IC50 value of 2.53 μM, confirming
that both compounds significantly inhibit HepG2 cell proliferation.
Having established their inhibitory effects, we next utilized the
SCOPE framework to predict potential protein targets for both com￾pounds. As depicted in the workflow in Fig. 5B, Rh1 and Celastrol were
computationally screened against all candidate proteins in our data￾base, and the SCOPE model ensemble ranked the potential interac￾tions. From the top 10 ranked proteins for each compound, we applied
two stringent filtering criteria to prioritize candidates for validation: (1)
inclusion of targets with reported anti-cancer relevance45, and (2)
confirmation of protein expression in HepG2 cells via the Human
Protein Atlas (HPA)46. This refinement process yielded three high￾confidence candidates for Rh1 (PRKAA2/AMPK, RELA/p65, and
AKR1B10) and three for Celastrol (NR4A1/Nur77, CYP3A5, and
AKR1B10). Notably, the interaction between Celastrol and NR4A1 has
been recently validated in the literature47; therefore, we excluded it
from our subsequent biophysical assays, focusing our efforts on the
remaining five previously uncharacterized pairs.
To experimentally confirm these computational predictions, we
first employed the cellular thermal shift assay combined with Western
blot (CETSA-WB) as a primary screen for direct physical engagement in
a cellular context. HepG2 cells were treated with each compound or a
vehicle control (DMSO) and subjected to a temperature gradient (40
to 74 ∘
C). As shown in Supplementary Fig. 5, a clear thermal stabiliza￾tion was observed for four of the five tested pairs: Rh1-p65, Rh1-
AKR1B10, Celastrol-CYP3A5, and Celastrol-AKR1B10. In contrast, the
Rh1-AMPK interaction did not exhibit a significant thermal shift and
was thus excluded from further validation. To corroborate these
findings, we then performed Isothermal Dose-Response CETSA (ITDR￾CETSA) for the four positive hits. The results, shown in Fig. 5C,
demonstrate clear, dose-dependent stabilization for all four pairs,
providing strong qualitative evidence of direct physical binding in situ.
Finally, to obtain a definitive, quantitative measure of these
interactions, we performed Bio-Layer Interferometry (BLI) assays. The
results, presented in Fig. 5D, provide conclusive evidence of direct
binding with clear sensorgrams and excellent fitting statistics. The
measured dissociation constants (Kd) were 3.19 ± 0.04 μM for Rh1-
Fig. 5 | Experimental validation of SCOPE-DTI-predicted targets for natural
products Ginsenoside Rh1 and Celastrol. A Viability of HepG2 cells after 24-h
treatment with Ginsenoside Rh1 (top) and Celastrol (bottom), measured by CCK-8
assay. Data represent the mean ± SD from six biological replicates, normalized to
controls. B The target identification workflow. SCOPE-DTI predicted Top 10 targets
for each compound, which were then filtered by cancer relevance and expression in
HepG2 cells to select final candidates. Molecules were visualized using Chem3D.
* PRKAA2 (AMPK) was excluded after failing the initial CETSA screen. ** The
Celastrol-NR4A1 (Nur77) interaction was previously validated in the literature.
C Isothermal dose-response CETSA (ITDR-CETSA) showing increased thermal
stability of target proteins in HepG2 cell lysates upon drug treatment at 64 ∘
C,
indicating direct binding. β-actin and GAPDH served as loading controls. Repre￾sentative blots are shown. Each experiment was independently repeated three
times with similar results. Uncropped blots are provided in the Source Data file.
D Bio-Layer Interferometry (BLI) confirming direct binding and quantifying affi-
nities. The calculated dissociation constants (Kd) for all four validated pairs are in
the micromolar range, meeting our model’s <10 μM success criterion. Kd values are
mean ± standard error, calculated from kinetic parameter fitting. Source data are
provided as a Source Data file. Additional fitting parameters, including Rmax and
chi2 values, are also available in the Source Data file.
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 8
AKR1B10, 1.02 ± 0.01 μM for Rh1-p65, 2.41 ± 0.03 μM for Celastrol￾AKR1B10, and 2.07 ± 0.03 μM for Celastrol-CYP3A5. All measured affi-
nities are well within the <10 μM cutoff used by our model, confirming
them as successful predictions. In total, including the previously vali￾dated Celastrol-NR4A1 interaction (Kd ≈ 292 nM)47, five out of the six
prioritized candidate targets were confirmed, corresponding to a
success rate of over 80%. This high success rate, which closely aligns
with the accuracy metrics from our large-scale computational bench￾marks, powerfully demonstrates the reliability and real-world applic￾ability of the SCOPE-DTI framework for discovering previously
uncharacterized targets of bioactive compounds. We also assessed the
performance of our baseline models on these validated pairs. SCOPE￾DTI was the only model to successfully rank all targets within the top
10, demonstrating its superior real-world applicability. A detailed
breakdown of each model’s ranking performance is provided in Sup￾plementary Table 9.
Discussion
In this study, we introduced SCOPE-DTI, a previously uncharacterized
framework developed to enhance the practical utility of deep learning￾based drug-target interaction (DTI) prediction. By constructing the
large semi-inductive human DTI dataset to date and incorporating
robust target-level data balancing, we have established a more reliable
foundation for evaluating model performance under real-world con￾ditions. Our approach, which leverages three-dimensional structural
representations of both proteins and compounds within an attention￾based architecture, demonstrated superior predictive performance
and structural interpretability across multiple benchmarks. We further
showcased SCOPE-DTI’s practical applicability by experimentally
identifying and validating previously uncharacterized anti-cancer tar￾gets for two bioactive natural products. To foster broader adoption,
we have made our model and curated dataset publicly accessible via a
user-friendly web interface.
While the case studies in this manuscript focused on identifying
anti-cancer targets, the potential applications of SCOPE-DTI extend far
beyond traditional drug discovery. Bioactive natural compounds are
ubiquitous, influencing human health through everyday consumables
such as foods48, dietary supplements49, and skin care50. AI-driven target
identification tools like SCOPE-DTI have the potential to elevate our
understanding of these compounds from empirical observation to a
new, mechanism-centric era. By systematically mapping the interac￾tions between these molecules and the human proteome, we can begin
to unravel the molecular basis of daily wellness and preventative
health. However, moving from target identification to mechanistic
insight requires acknowledging that physical binding is a critical
starting point, not an endpoint. A truly comprehensive understanding
of a compound’s systemic effects necessitates a multifaceted
approach. To translate physical binding into functional outcomes,
downstream functional assays are essential. Furthermore, to capture
the dynamic nature of cellular responses, future studies should inte￾grate context-specific data, such as transcriptomics from treated cells,
to identify targets whose expression is modulated by the compound
itself.
Despite these accomplishments, several areas remain for future
improvement. Our choice to incorporate 3D structural information
was motivated by its clear benefits to performance and interpret￾ability. However, our ablation studies revealed a notable discrepancy:
3D compound structures currently offer more significant perfor￾mance gains than 3D protein structures. We hypothesize this is
directly linked to the inherent limitations of current protein structure
prediction methods like AlphaFold2. While these AI-based tools have
revolutionized structural biology, their predictions, as others have
noted, must be treated as exceptionally useful hypotheses rather
than ground truth51. Their accuracies vary, and critically, they do not
account for the influence of ligands, covalent modifications, or other
cellular factors that can alter protein conformation. Consequently,
even high-confidence predictions can exhibit local or global devia￾tions from the biologically active state. Looking forward, we antici￾pate that the next generation of predictive tools, such as AlphaFold3,
will provide more accurate, dynamic, and context-aware structural
data. Our modular framework is well-positioned to seamlessly inte￾grate these future advancements, which we expect will unlock sig￾nificant further gains in DTI prediction accuracy. Furthermore, while
the bilinear attention mechanism effectively captures interaction
patterns, its interpretability remains most meaningful at the cluster
level. Future work will therefore focus on incorporating more gran￾ular data, such as pocket-level binding information, and refining the
model architecture to enhance both the residue-specific accuracy
and the interpretability of our framework. Finally, on the data front,
while SCOPE represents the large dataset of its kind, our analysis
revealed that coverage for certain crucial protein families, such as
GPCRs, remains limited due to the scarcity of public data. Our scaling
analysis confirms that model performance is currently data-limited.
Therefore, future efforts in large-scale, systematic data generation
and curation for these underrepresented target classes will be para￾mount to building truly comprehensive and universally applicable
DTI prediction models.
Methods
SCOPE dataset development
We developed the SCOPE dataset as a comprehensive, multi-source,
and well-annotated resource tailored for drug-target interaction (DTI)
prediction. This dataset integrates DTI data from a wide range of
public sources, including ChEMBL activity30, PubChem activity29,
DrugBank52, BindingDB20, DrugCentral53, TTD54, Pharos55,
PROMISCUOUS56, GtoPdb27, Human22, BioSNAP57, KIBA23, and DAVIS58.
Additionally, these sources encompass more than 20 reference data
sources. However, the raw data presented several challenges: (1) lack
of unified annotations, (2) varying scales and pharmacological eva￾luation metrics, and (3) inconsistent data quality with potential erro￾neous entries. To address these issues, we performed comprehensive
data cleaning and standardization.
Protein and compound annotation. We unified protein annotations
by the Uniprot database and filtered all human proteins, focusing on
druggable targets for interaction prediction with small molecules.
Proteins were classified into pharmacological target families (e.g., G￾protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), kinases) using the IUPHAR data￾base. To provide structural insights, we generated three-dimensional
(3D) structures for all proteins using AlphaFold2. Compounds were
annotated using identifiers from the PubChem and ChEMBL databases.
We generated 3D structures of the compounds using RDKit and opti￾mized their conformations with the Merck Molecular Force
Field (MMFF).
Interaction label unification. To harmonize different scales and
pharmacological evaluation metrics across various data sources, we
assigned interaction labels based on PubChem activity distributions,
classifying them as either positive (1) or negative (0). Specific classifi-
cation criteria are detailed in Supplementary Note 1 and Supplemen￾tary Table 2. This approach allowed us to standardize experimental
information from different sources into a consistent binary
classification.
Multi-source data integration. To further improve data quality, we
consolidated multiple data sources by retaining only interactions
consistently labeled as positive across all sources. If any source labeled
an interaction as negative, we considered the interaction negative in
our dataset. This conservative approach maximized the reliability of
positive samples.
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 9
Mitigating target-level interaction imbalance. To address target￾level interaction imbalance—where a protein pi exhibits a dispropor￾tionate number of interactions from one class – we implemented a
dataset filtering strategy. For each protein pi, we consider its interac￾tion set IðpiÞ = fðpi, cj, lijÞg, where cj denotes a compound and lij ∈ {0, 1}
indicates the interaction label. The imbalance is quantified through
two counters: N0(negative interactions) and N1 (positive interactions)
within IðpiÞ.
If pi had more than 75% of its interactions belonging to one class,
we performed stratified random sampling to obtain a subset I0
ðpiÞ that
satisfies:
minðN0
0,N0
1Þ
N0
0 +N0
1
≥ 0:25, ð1Þ
whereN0
0 and N0
1 are the counts of negative and positive interactions in
I0
ðpiÞ, respectively. This ensures that the minority class is represented
at least 25% of the interactions for pi, achieving a class ratio between
25% and 75%. Proteins with insufficient interactions after filtering were
excluded to maintain data quality.
Visualization of data cleaning effects. To demonstrate the impact of
our data cleaning and balancing procedures, we analyzed the dis￾tribution of interaction ratios per protein before and after filtering. For
each protein pi, we calculated the ratio of positive interactions:
RðpiÞ = N1
N0 +N1
, ð2Þ
where N0 and N1 are the counts of negative and positive interactions,
respectively, for protein pi. We grouped proteins into intervals based
on R(pi) with a specified interval length (e.g., 0.02) and plotted the
number of proteins within each interval. This visualization highlighted
the reduction of proteins with extreme interaction imbalances after
filtering.
Dataset statistics and comparative analysis. We quantified the
SCOPE dataset by calculating the number of unique compounds, tar￾gets, and total interactions. Our dataset encompasses a significantly
larger number of compounds and interactions compared to existing
datasets, both before and after the filtering procedures. To illustrate
the scale and comprehensiveness of SCOPE, we generated plots that
compare the data volume with that of previous datasets, highlighting
our dataset’s superiority in size and diversity. Detailed statistical
information and comparative analyses are provided in Fig. 1 and Sup￾plementary Table 3.
SCOPE framework architecture
HGNN for protein structure. A protein Pi 2 P, composed of M amino
acid residues, can be represented by its primary sequence
Si = (v1, v2, …, vM), where each residue vm belongs to one of the
20 standard amino acid types. In their physicochemical environment,
these sequences fold into stable three-dimensional (3D) structures. To
capture both the sequence and structural information of protein Pi, we
construct a residue-level heterogeneous protein graph
Gð
P
iÞ
= ðVP
ðiÞ
, Eð
P
iÞ
, RÞ, where VP
ðiÞ represents the residues as nodes, Eð
P
iÞ
denotes the edges connecting them, and R specifies the edge types.
In this work, we use two types of edges to represent the rela￾tionships between residues. Sequential edges connect residues that
are adjacent in the primary sequence, preserving the natural order of
the amino acids. Radius edges connect residues whose spatial Eucli￾dean distance, calculated based on the geometric centers of all their
atoms, is below a predefined threshold dr. This approach ensures that
both local sequence context and spatial proximity within the folded
protein are encoded.
To encode the heterogeneous protein graph GP = (VP, EP, R), we
employ a Heterogeneous Graph Neural Network (HGNN)32. Each edge
type r ∈ R is associated with a weight matrix Wð
r
lÞ at layer l, and a shared
weight matrix Wð
h
lÞ is used to combine the aggregated messages from
different edge types.
The node embeddings are updated iteratively across L layers. At
layer l(where 1≤l≤L), the embedding of each residue vm is computed as:
hm
ðlÞ
= BN ReLU Wð
h
lÞ  X
r2R
X
vn2N rðmÞ
0
@
0
@ Wr
ðlÞ
hð
n
l 1Þ
1
A
1
A, ð3Þ
where hð
m
0Þ
= xm represents the initial input feature of residue vm, and
hm
ðlÞ is the embedding at layer l. The neighbors N rðmÞ are defined as
residues connected to vm by edge type r. The batch normalization
function BN( ⋅ ) and rectified linear unit activation ReLU( ⋅ ) are applied
for stable training, while Wr
ðlÞ 2 Rd × d and Wh
ðlÞ 2 Rd × d are learnable
weight matrices. This formulation ensures that the heterogeneous
nature of the graph is effectively captured, integrating sequence and
structural information into a unified representation.
This formulation ensures that messages from different edge types
are appropriately transformed and aggregated.
GVP for drug encoding. Given the three-dimensional (3D) coordinates
of atoms in a molecule, we represent the molecular structure as a
graph Gd = (Vd, Ed), where the nodes Vd correspond to the atoms of the
molecule, and the edges Ed are defined between pairs of atoms whose
Euclidean distance is less than 4.5 Å59. This representation captures
both the chemical and spatial relationships within the molecule.
Node Features: For each atom i, we construct a node feature
hi
ð0Þ
= ðhi
ð0Þ, v
, hi
ð0Þ, s
Þ, which consists of both a vector component hð
i
0Þ, v
and a scalar component hi
ð0Þ, s
. The vector feature hi
ð0Þ, v = ci 2 R3
represents the atom’s 3D coordinates in space. The scalar feature
hi
ð0Þ, s 2 R74 is a 74-dimensional integer vector that describes the atom
with eight types of information: the atom type, the atom degree, the
number of implicit hydrogens, the formal charge, the number of
radical electrons, the atom hybridization, the number of total hydro￾gens, and whether the atom is aromatic35.
Edge Features: For each edge (i, j) ∈ Ed, we define an edge feature
eji = ðev
ji, es
jiÞ. The vector feature ev
ji = k
c
c
j ci
j cik 2 R3 is the unit vector
pointing from atom i to atom j. The scalar feature es
ji = RBFðk cj  ci kÞ 2
R16 encodes the pairwise distance using 16 Gaussian radial basis func￾tions (RBFs) with centers evenly spaced between 0 and 4.5 Å.
Molecular Graph Neural Network: To learn a representation for the
input molecule, we utilize a Graph Neural Network based on Geometric
Vector Perceptrons (GVPs)34. Each node embedding hi
ðlÞ
= ðhð
i
lÞ, v
, hi
ðlÞ, s
Þ
consists of a vector and a scalar component.
At each layer l, the node embeddings are updated using the fol￾lowing equation:
hi
ðlÞ
= hð
i
l 1Þ
+ GVP hð
i
l 1Þ
,
X
j2N ðiÞ
0
@ GVP  hð
j
l 1Þ
, eji
1
A ð4Þ
where N ðiÞ denotes the set of neighboring nodes of node i, GVP( ⋅ , ⋅ )
represents a GVP layer that processes node and edge features, and
hi
ð0Þ
= vi is the initial feature of node i. This update rule incorporates
both the features of neighboring atoms and the geometric information
from edge features.
After L layers of message passing, we obtain the final node
embeddings hð
i
LÞ for all nodes in the graph. To derive a fixed-size
representation of the entire molecule, we apply a global add pooling
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 10
operation over all node embeddings:
hd =
X
i2Vd
hð
i
LÞ
, ð5Þ
where hd 2 Rd is the learned representation of the input molecule.
Pairwise interaction learning. To capture pairwise local interactions
between drugs and proteins, we employ a bilinear attention network
module comprising two key layers: a bilinear interaction map to
compute pairwise attention weights, and a bilinear pooling layer over
the interaction map to extract a joint drug–protein representation.
Given the hidden representations from the encoders
—Hd 2 RN ×Dd for the drug and Hp 2 RM × Dp for the protein—we com￾pute the pairwise interaction matrix I 2 RN × M as:
I =
  σ
  HdU q>  σ
  HpV >
, ð6Þ
where U 2 RDd × K and V 2 RDp × K are learnable weight matrices, q 2
RK is a learnable weight vector, σ( ⋅ ) is an activation function (e.g.,
sigmoid), ⊙ denotes element-wise multiplication (Hadamard pro￾duct), and the superscript ⊤ indicates matrix transpose. Each element
Ii,j represents the interaction score between the i-th atom of the drug
and the j-th residue of the protein.
For intuitive understanding, an element Ii,j can be expressed as:
Ii, j = q>
  σ
  U>hi
d  σ
  V >hj
p , ð7Þ
where hi
d and hj
p are the embeddings of the i-th atom and the j-th
residue, respectively.
The joint representation f
0 2 RK is then computed via bilinear
pooling:
f 0
=
  σ
  HdU > I σ
  HpV 1, ð8Þ
where 1 2 RM is a vector of ones used for summation over the protein
residues. To reduce dimensionality, we apply sum pooling:
f = SumPool  f
0
, s , ð9Þ
resulting in the final feature vector f 2 RK=s
.
To compute the interaction probability, we feed the joint repre￾sentation f into a decoder consisting of a fully connected layer fol￾lowed by a sigmoid activation function:
p = σ
  Wof + bo , ð10Þ
where Wo and bo are learnable weight parameters.
Finally, we jointly optimize all learnable parameters using back￾propagation. The training objective is to minimize the cross-entropy
loss with L2 regularization:
L=  X
i
 
yi log pi + ð1  yiÞlogð1  piÞ + 2
λ
k θk2
2, ð11Þ
where θ represents the set of all learnable parameters, yi is the ground￾truth label for the i-th drug–protein pair, pi is the predicted probability,
and λ is the regularization hyper-parameter. Overall, this pairwise
interaction learning approach is highly inspired by and adapted from
DrugBAN15.
Experimental setting
Datasets. We evaluated the SCOPE model and five state-of-the-art
baseline models on four public DTI datasets: BindingDB, KIBA, Human,
and our constructed SCOPE dataset. The SCOPE dataset includes var￾ious protein families annotated by IUPHAR, such as G-protein-coupled
receptors (GPCRs), kinases, ion channels, and nuclear hormone
receptors, along with our total dataset. All datasets were tested in both
their original and debiased versions. The BindingDB dataset20 is a web￾accessible database of experimentally validated binding affinities
between small drug-like molecules and proteins; we utilized a low-bias
version of this dataset21. The KIBA dataset23 integrates various bioac￾tivity measurements to provide a comprehensive set of drug-target
interactions, focusing particularly on kinase inhibitors. The Human
dataset, constructed by Liu et al.22, includes highly credible negative
samples generated via an in silico screening method; following pre￾vious studies18,25, we used the balanced version containing an equal
number of positive and negative samples.
Implementation. SCOPE model is implemented in Python 3.9 and
PyTorch 2.2.060, along with functions from PyG 2.5.261, DGL 2.2.562,
DGLlifeSci 0.3.235, Scikit-learn 1.0.263, Numpy 1.20.264, Pandas 1.5.2, and
RDKit 2021.03.2. The batch size is set to be 64, and the Adam optimizer
is used with a learning rate of 5e-5. We allow the model to run for at
most 100 epochs for all datasets. The best performing model is
selected at the epoch giving the best AUROC score on the validation
set, which is then used to evaluate the final performance on the test set.
The protein encoder HGNN utilizes an embedding dimension of 320
and processes protein sequences with a maximum allowed length of
2000 amino acids. To construct the protein 3D graph, we set an edge
cutoff distance of 10 Å. The HGNN comprises 4 layers, and we include a
fully connected layer with bias to enhance model capacity. For the
drug feature encoder, the atom input dimensions are set to [74, 1],
capturing both scalar and vector features. The atom's hidden dimen￾sions are [320, 64], allowing the model to learn complex representa￾tions. Similarly, the edge input dimensions are [16, 1], and the edge
hidden dimensions are [32, 1]. The GVP model consists of 3 layers and
incorporates a dropout rate of 0.1 to prevent overfitting. An edge
cutoff distance of 4.5 Å is used, and we compute 16 radial distribution
functions to capture spatial relationships between atoms. Notably,
there is no maximum length restriction for compounds in our model.
In the bilinear attention module, we employ two attention heads to
enhance interpretability while capturing intricate interactions between
drugs and proteins. The latent embedding size is set to 768, and we use
a sum pooling window size of 3 to aggregate features effectively. The
decoder is a fully connected network with 512 hidden neurons,
enabling the model to make accurate predictions based on the learned
representations.
Baselines. We compare the SCOPE model with the following five
methods for DTI prediction: (1) SVM, a shallow machine learning
algorithm; (2) MLP, a simple deep neural network with hidden
dimensions [2048, 512, 128, 32], applied to the concatenated ECFP4
and PSC fingerprint features; (3) MolTrans, a deep learning model that
uses the transformer architecture to encode drug and protein features,
with a CNN-based module to capture sub-structural interactions; (4)
TransformerCPI, a Transformer-based model with an encoder for
protein sequences and a decoder for molecular graphs, leveraging
multi-head attention to extract interaction features; (5) BertDTI, a
model that leverages large, pre-trained foundation models for repre￾sentation learning. It utilizes ChemBERTa to encode drug SMILES and
ProtBERT to encode protein sequences, with a simple MLP decoder for
the final DTI prediction. (6) DrugBAN, a model that encodes drug
molecules and protein sequences using graph convolutional networks
and 1D-convolutional neural networks, followed by a bilinear attention
network to capture pairwise interactions and a fully connected deco￾der for DTI prediction. For the above deep DTI models, we follow the
recommended model hyper-parameter settings described in their
original papers.
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 11
Interpretability. Representative AlphaFold structures (UniProt IDs
P46095, O43826, and P42224) were retrieved from the AlphaFold
Protein Structure Database (AlphaFold DB; DOI: 10.1093/nar/
gkab1061), model version 4 (corresponding to AlphaFold DB release
4), in September 2024. These structures were used in the interpret￾ability analysis to visualize model-derived interaction patterns and
evaluate structure-based consistency of binding features. The asso￾ciated pLDDT-colored models and Predicted Aligned Error (PAE) plots
are provided in Supplementary Fig. 6.
Experimental validation of anti-cancer targets of Ginsenoside
Rh1 and Celastrol
Cell viability assay. HepG2 cells (human hepatocellular carcinoma,
male, 15 years old, Caucasian; CellCook, cat. no. CC0101) were used in
this study. HepG2 cells were seeded in 96-well plates at a density of
1 × 104 cells per well and incubated overnight at 37 ∘
C with 5% CO2 to
allow adhesion. Cells were treated with Ginsenoside Rh1 (Aladdin, cat.
no. G107710-20mg) at final concentrations of 0, 10, 12.5, 20, 25, 40, 50,
and 100 μM, or with Celastrol (Aladdin, cat. no. C107671-10mg) at final
concentrations of 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 μM for 24 h. Untreated cells
served as controls. Cell viability was evaluated using the Enhanced Cell
Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8; Beyotime Biotechnology, cat. no. C0042). After
treatment, 10 μL of CCK-8 solution was added to each well, followed by
incubation at 37 ∘
C for 2 h. Optical density (OD) at 450 nm was mea￾sured using a microplate reader to quantify viable cells. All conditions
were tested in six independent replicates to ensure reproducibility.
Cellular thermal shift assay followed by Western blotting (CETSA￾WB). HepG2 cells were lysed in RIPA buffer (Beyotime, cat. no.
P0013C), and the resulting lysate was incubated with either the test
compound (100 μM Ginsenoside Rh1 or 10 μM Celastrol) or a vehicle
control (1% DMSO, v/v) at room temperature for 30 min. The lysate
was divided into aliquots and incubated at defined temperatures (40,
46, 52, 58, 64, and 74 ∘
C) for 3 min using an Applied Biosystems PCR
analyzer (Thermo Scientific, USA). Following heat treatment, the
samples were cooled at 4 ∘
C for 10 min and transferred to low￾adsorption centrifuge tubes. To each 100 μL aliquot, 40 μL of PBS
(Gibco, cat. no. C14190500BT) was added and mixed thoroughly.
Protein concentrations were adjusted to 2000 μg/mL and quantified
using a BCA assay (Coolaber, cat. no. SK1070). The samples were
centrifuged at 20,000 × g for 30 min at 4 ∘
C to remove precipitated
proteins. The resulting supernatants were mixed with 6× loading
buffer (Beyotime, cat. no. P0015F) and denatured at 100 ∘
C for
10 min. The denatured samples were then cooled on ice for 10 min￾utes, followed by centrifugation at 14,000 × g for 10 min at 4 ∘
C. The
final supernatants, containing soluble protein fractions, were col￾lected for Western blot analysis to evaluate the thermal stability of
target proteins.
Protein concentrations of the CETSA supernatants were quanti-
fied using a BCA assay to ensure equal loading. Samples were mixed
with 6× loading buffer (Beyotime, cat. no. P0015F). Equal amounts of
total protein were loaded onto a BeyoGel™ Plus Precast PAGE Gel (10%
HEPES, 15 wells, Beyotime, cat. no. P0509M). Proteins were resolved by
electrophoresis (60 V for 30 min, then 110 V for 40 min). Proteins were
transferred onto PVDF membranes (Millipore, cat. no. ISEQ00010)
using a rapid transfer apparatus (eBlot® L1, GenScript, cat. no.
L00686C) after membrane activation with methanol and equilibration
buffer (Genescript, cat. no. L00734C). Membranes were blocked with
QuickBlock™ Western Block solution (Beyotime, cat. no. P0252) for
15 min at room temperature. Membranes were incubated overnight at
4 ∘
C with the following primary antibodies (all at 1:1000 dilution): anti￾AKR1B10 (Abcam, cat. no. ab96417), anti-AMPKα2 (Abcam, cat. no.
ab32047), anti-NF-κB p65 (Abcam, cat. no. ab16502), and anti-CYP3A5
(Abcam, cat. no. ab108624). After washing three times with TBST,
membranes were incubated with HRP-labeled Goat Anti-Rabbit IgG(H
+L) (Beyotime, cat. no. A0208, 1:1000 dilution) or HRP-labeled Goat
Anti-Mouse IgG(H+L) (Beyotime, cat. no. A0216, 1:1000 dilution) for
1 hour at room temperature. Protein bands were visualized using an
ECL substrate (Beyotime, cat. no. P0018FM) and imaged using Touch
Imager Pro (e-BLOT Life Science, Shanghai, China). Beta Actin Poly￾clonal antibody (Proteintech, cat. no. 20536-1-AP, 1:1000 dilution) or
GAPDH Monoclonal antibody (Proteintech, cat. no. 60004-1-Ig, 1:1000
dilution) were probed as loading controls on the same membranes
after stripping.
Isothermal dose-response CETSA followed by Western blotting
(ITDR-CETSA-WB). For targets that exhibited a clear thermal shift in
the initial CETSA screen, ITDR experiments were carried out. HepG2
lysates were incubated for 30 min with a six-point concentration series
of each compound, prepared by serial 1:2 dilutions from a starting
concentration of 100 μM (i.e., 100, 50, 25, 12.5, 6.25, and 0 μM), along
with a vehicle control. All samples were then heated to a single, fixed
temperature chosen from the thermal gradient screen to maximize the
observed shift (e.g., 64 ∘
C). Following heat treatment, samples were
processed as described for CETSA-WB, and the soluble protein frac￾tions were subjected to Western blotting to assess dose-dependent
stabilization of the target proteins.
Bio-layer interferometry (BLI) assay. Binding kinetics and affinities
were quantified using a Gatorprime Bio-Layer Interferometry system
(Gator Bio, Palo Alto, CA, USA). All experiments were conducted at
30 ∘
C in 96-well black microplates with a working volume of 200 μL
per well. The kinetic buffer used throughout the assay consisted of
phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) supplemented with 0.02% Tween-
20. Recombinant human proteins, including CYP3A5 (Biorbyt, cat.
no. orb1477061), AKR1B10 (Abcam, cat. no. ab85415), and p65
(SinoBiological, cat. no. 12054-H09E), were purified and biotinylated
in-house using a standard NHS-biotinylation pipeline. SAS probe
(Gator Bio, cat. no. 88-0002) was first hydrated in kinetic buffer and
then used to immobilize the biotinylated proteins to a target density
over 5 nm. The compounds, Ginsenoside Rh1 and Celastrol, were
prepared in a five-point, 1:2 serial dilution series, starting from 10 μM,
following a standard protocol. To ensure data accuracy, a double
reference subtraction was employed during data analysis using the
Gatorprime software suite. This involved subtracting the signal from
parallel reference sensors (immobilized protein exposed to buffer
only, to correct for signal drift) and from a blank reference subtrac￾tion (non-immobilized sensors exposed to the compound, to correct
for non-specific binding). The resulting sensorgrams were globally
fitted to a 1:1 binding model to determine the association rate con￾stant (kon), dissociation rate constant (koff), and the equilibrium
dissociation constant (Kd). The final Kd was calculated from the ratio
of koff/kon with a standard error.
Statistical analysis. Data were analyzed using GraphPad Prism
(v10.5.0) and are presented as mean ± SD. Statistical significance was
defined as p < 0.05.
Reporting summary
Further information on research design is available in the Nature
Portfolio Reporting Summary linked to this article.
Data availability
The SCOPE dataset generated in this study has been deposited in
Zenodo under accession code https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.
17217469 and is also accessible via our webserver: https://awi.cuhk.
edu.cn/SCOPE/. All other datasets used in this study are publicly
available from established resources, including DrugBank (https://go.
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 12
drugbank.com), ChEMBL (https://www.ebi.ac.uk/chembl), BindingDB
(https://www.bindingdb.org), DrugCentral (http://drugcentral.org),
the Therapeutic Target Database (http://db.idrblab.net/ttd/), Pub￾Chem (https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov), Pharos (https://pharos.nih.
gov), PROMISCUOUS, and the IUPHAR/BPS Guide to
PHARMACOLOGY. Additional resources include TransformerCPI
(https://github.com/lifanchen-simm/transformerCPI), the SNAP
library (http://snap.stanford.edu), and previously published kinase
inhibitor datasets23,58. Protein structures were obtained from Alpha￾Fold DB (https://www.alphafold.ebi.ac.uk/) and the RCSB PDB (https://
www.rcsb.org/). Representative protein structures used for molecular
visualization were obtained from AlphaFold DB and the Protein Data
Bank, including https://alphafold.ebi.ac.uk/files/AF-P46095-F1-model_
v4.pdb, https://alphafold.ebi.ac.uk/files/AF-O43826-F1-model_v4.pdb,
https://alphafold.ebi.ac.uk/files/AF-P42224-F1-model_v4.pdb, and
https://files.rcsb.org/download/1MBA.cif. Source data are provided
with this paper on figshare: https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.
30372982.
Code availability
The source code used to develop the model, perform the analyses, and
generate the results in this study is publicly available under the
Apache-2.0 license at: https://github.com/Yigang-Chen/SCOPE-DTI.
The specific version of the code associated with this publication has
been archived in Zenodo: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1721739165.
Benchmark implementations of other methods used in this study are
available at: MolTrans: https://github.com/kexinhuang12345/
MolTrans, TransformerCPI: https://github.com/lifanchen-simm/
transformerCPI, BertDTI: https://github.com/hskang0906/DTI￾Prediction, DrugBAN: https://github.com/peizhenbai/DrugBAN.
References
1. Luo, Y. et al. A network integration approach for drug-target inter￾action prediction and computational drug repositioning from het￾erogeneous information. Nat. Commun. 8, 573 (2017).
2. Pushpakom, S. et al. Drug repurposing: progress, challenges and
recommendations. Nat. Rev. Drug Discov. 18, 41–58 (2019).
3. Mizutani, S., Pauwels, E., Stoven, V., Goto, S. & Yamanishi, Y.
Relating drug-protein interaction network with drug side effects.
Bioinformatics 28, i522–i528 (2012).
4. Smit, I. A. et al. Systematic analysis of protein targets associated
with adverse events of drugs from clinical trials and postmarketing
reports. Chem. Res. Toxicol. 34, 365–384 (2021).
5. Friman, T. Mass spectrometry-based Cellular Thermal Shift Assay
(CETSA®) for target deconvolution in phenotypic drug discovery.
Bioorg. Med. Chem. 28, 115174 (2020).
6. Huang, Y. et al. A robust drug-target interaction prediction frame￾work with capsule network and transfer learning. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 24,
14061 (2023).
7. Koutsoukas, A. et al. From in silico target prediction to multi-target
drug design: current databases, methods and applications. J. Pro￾teom. 74, 2554–2574 (2011).
8. Chen, W., Liu, X., Zhang, S. & Chen, S. Artificial intelligence for drug
discovery: resources, methods, and applications. Mol. Ther. Nucleic
Acids 31, 691–702 (2023).
9. Bagherian, M. et al. Machine learning approaches and databases for
prediction of drug-target interaction: a survey paper. Brief. Bioin￾forma. 22, 247–269 (2021).
10. Van Westen, G. J., Wegner, J. K., IJzerman, A. P., Van Vlijmen, H. W. &
Bender, A. Proteochemometric modeling as a tool to design
selective compounds and for extrapolating to novel targets. Med￾ChemComm 2, 16–30 (2011).
11. Öztürk, H., Özgür, A. & Ozkirimli, E. DeepDTA: deep drug-target
binding affinity prediction. Bioinformatics 34, i821–i829
(2018).
12. Lee, I., Keum, J. & Nam, H. DeepConv-DTI: prediction of drug-target
interactions via deep learning with convolution on protein
sequences. PLoS Comput. Biol. 15, e1007129 (2019).
13. Karimi, M., Wu, D., Wang, Z. & Shen, Y. DeepAffinity: Interpretable
deep learning of compound-protein affinity through unified recur￾rent and convolutional neural networks. Bioinformatics 35,
3329–3338 (2019).
14. Kang, H. et al. Fine-tuning of BERT model to accurately predict
drug-target interactions. Pharmaceutics 14, https://doi.org/10.
3390/pharmaceutics14081710 (2022).
15. Bai, P., Miljković, F., John, B. & Lu, H. Interpretable bilinear attention
network with domain adaptation improves drug–target prediction.
Nat. Mach. Intell. 5, 126–136 (2023).
16. Tsubaki, M., Tomii, K. & Sese, J. Compound-protein interaction
prediction with end-to-end learning of neural networks for graphs
and sequences. Bioinformatics 35, 309–318 (2019).
17. Luo, Y., Liu, Y. & Peng, J. Calibrated geometric deep learning
improves kinase–drug binding predictions. Nat. Mach. Intell. 5,
1390–1401 (2023).
18. Zheng, S., Li, Y., Chen, S., Xu, J. & Yang, Y. Predicting drug–protein
interaction using quasi-visual question answering system. Nat.
Mach. Intell. 2, 134–140 (2020).
19. Huang, K., Xiao, C., Glass, L. M. & Sun, J. MolTrans: Molecular
Interaction Transformer for drug-target interaction prediction.
Bioinformatics 37, 830–836 (2021).
20. Gilson, M. K. et al. BindingDB in 2015: a public database for med￾icinal chemistry, computational chemistry and systems pharma￾cology. Nucleic Acids Res. 44, D1045–1053 (2016).
21. Bai, P. et al. Hierarchical clustering split for low-bias evaluation of
drug-target interaction prediction. In: 2021 IEEE International Con￾ference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine (BIBM), 641–644, https://
doi.org/10.1109/BIBM52615.2021.9669515 (IEEE, 2021).
22. Liu, H., Sun, J., Guan, J., Zheng, J. & Zhou, S. Improving compound￾protein interaction prediction by building up highly credible
negative samples. Bioinformatics 31, i221–229 (2015).
23. Tang, J. et al. Making sense of large-scale kinase inhibitor bioactivity
data sets: a comparative and integrative analysis. J. Chem. Inf.
Model. 54, 735–743 (2014).
24. Chatterjee, A. et al. Improving the generalizability of protein-ligand
binding predictions with AI-Bind. Nat. Commun. 14, 1989 (2023).
25. Chen, L. et al. TransformerCPI: Improving compound-protein
interaction prediction by sequence-based deep learning with self￾attention mechanism and label reversal experiments. Bioinfor￾matics 36, 4406–4414 (2020).
26. UniProt Consortium. UniProt: The Universal Protein Knowledgebase
in 2023. Nucleic Acids Res. 51, D523–D531 (2023).
27. Harding, S. D. et al. The IUPHAR/BPS Guide to PHARMACOLOGY in
2024. Nucleic Acids Res. 52, D1438–D1449 (2024).
28. Jumper, J. et al. Highly accurate protein structure prediction with
AlphaFold. Nature 596, 583–589 (2021).
29. Kim, S. et al. PubChem 2023 update. Nucleic Acids Res. 51,
D1373–D1380 (2023).
30. Zdrazil, B. et al. The ChEMBL Database in 2023: a drug discovery
platform spanning multiple bioactivity data types and time periods.
Nucleic Acids Res. 52, D1180–D1192 (2024).
31. Tosco, P., Stiefl, N. & Landrum, G. Bringing the MMFF force field to
the RDKit: Implementation and validation. J. Cheminformat. 6,
37 (2014).
32. Zhang, C., Song, D., Huang, C., Swami, A. & Chawla, N. V. Hetero￾geneous Graph Neural Network. In: Proceedings of the 25th ACM
SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data
Mining, 793–803, https://doi.org/10.1145/3292500.3330961 (ACM,
Anchorage, AK, USA, 2019).
33. Wu, L. et al. MAPE-PPI: Towards effective and efficient protein￾protein interaction prediction via microenvironment-aware protein
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 13
embedding, https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2402.14391
(2024).
34. Jing, B., Eismann, S., Suriana, P., Townshend, R. J. L. & Dror, R.
Learning from protein structure with geometric vector perceptrons,
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2009.01411 (2021).
35. Li, M. et al. DGL-LifeSci: an open-source toolkit for deep learning on
graphs in life science. ACS Omega 6, 27233–27238 (2021).
36. Cortes, C. & Vapnik, V. Support-vector networks. Mach. Learn. 20,
273–297 (1995).
37. Rumelhart, D. E., Hinton, G. E. & Williams, R. J. Learning repre￾sentations by back-propagating errors. Nature 323, 533–536
(1986).
38. McInnes, L., Healy, J. & Melville, J. Umap: Uniform manifold
approximation and projection for dimension reduction. https://doi.
org/10.48550/arXiv.1802.03426 (2018).
39. Ankerst, M., Breunig, M. M., Kriegel, H.-P. & Sander, J. Optics:
Ordering points to identify the clustering structure. ACM Sigmod.
Rec. 28, 49–60 (1999).
40. Atanasov, A. G., Zotchev, S. B., Dirsch, V. M. & Supuran, C. T. Natural
products in drug discovery: Advances and opportunities. Nat. Rev.
Drug Discov. 20, 200–216 (2021).
41. Tang, Y. et al. Panax notoginseng alleviates oxidative stress through
miRNA regulations based on systems biology approach. Chin. Med.
18, 74 (2023).
42. Tam, D. N. H. et al. Ginsenoside Rh1: a systematic review of its
pharmacological properties. Planta Med. 84, 139–152 (2018).
43. Lyu, X. et al. Ginsenoside Rh1 inhibits colorectal cancer cell
migration and invasion in vitro and tumor growth in vivo. Oncol.
Lett. 18, 4160–4166 (2019).
44. Wang, C. et al. Celastrol as an emerging anticancer agent: current
status, challenges and therapeutic strategies. Biomed. Pharmac￾other. 163, 114882 (2023).
45. Savage, S. R. et al. Pan-cancer proteogenomics expands the land￾scape of therapeutic targets. Cell 187, 4389–4407.e15 (2024).
46. Uhlén, M. et al. Proteomics. Tissue-based map of the human pro￾teome. Science 347, 1260419 (2015).
47. Hu, M. et al. Celastrol-induced Nur77 interaction with TRAF2 alle￾viates inflammation by promoting mitochondrial ubiquitination and
autophagy. Mol. Cell 66, 141–153.e6 (2017).
48. Menichetti, G., Barabási, A.-L. & Loscalzo, J. Chemical complexity of
food and implications for therapeutics. N. Engl. J. Med. 392,
1836–1845 (2025).
49. Coates, P. M. et al. The evolution of science and regulation of
dietary supplements: past, present, and future. J. Nutr. 154,
2335–2345 (2024).
50. Zhang, T. et al. Red rice extract as a biological UV filter and its
photoprotective enhancement effects. J. Dermatol. Sci. Cosmet.
Technol. 100102, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdsct.2025.
100102 (2025).
51. Terwilliger, T. C. et al. AlphaFold predictions are valuable hypoth￾eses and accelerate but do not replace experimental structure
determination. Nat. Methods 21, 110–116 (2024).
52. Knox, C. et al. DrugBank 6.0: The DrugBank Knowledgebase for
2024. Nucleic Acids Res. 52, D1265–D1275 (2024).
53. Avram, S. et al. DrugCentral 2023 extends human clinical data and
integrates veterinary drugs. Nucleic Acids Res. 51, D1276–D1287
(2023).
54. Zhou, Y. et al. TTD: Therapeutic Target Database describing target
druggability information. Nucleic Acids Res. 52, D1465–D1477
(2024).
55. Kelleher, K. J. et al. Pharos 2023: an integrated resource for the
understudied human proteome. Nucleic Acids Res. 51, D1405–
D1416 (2023).
56. Gallo, K. et al. PROMISCUOUS 2.0: a resource for drug￾repositioning. Nucleic Acids Res. 49, D1373–D1380 (2021).
57. Leskovec, J. & Sosič, R. SNAP: a general-purpose network analysis
and graph-mining library. ACM Trans. Intell. Syst. Technol. 8,
1:1–1:20 (2016).
58. Davis, M. I. et al. Comprehensive analysis of kinase inhibitor selec￾tivity. Nat. Biotechnol. 29, 1046–1051 (2011).
59. Townshend, R. J. L. et al. ATOM3D: Tasks On Molecules in Three
Dimensions https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2012.04035 (2022).
60. Paszke, A. et al. PyTorch: an imperative style, high-performance
deep learning library, https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1912.01703
(2019).
61. Fey, M. & Lenssen, J. E. Fast graph representation learning with
PyTorch geometric, https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1903.
02428 (2019).
62. Wang, M. et al. Deep graph library: a graph-centric, highly￾performant package for graph neural networks, https://doi.org/10.
48550/arXiv.1909.01315 (2020).
63. Pedregosa, F. et al. Scikit-learn: machine learning in Python, https://
doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1201.0490 (2018).
64. Harris, C. R. et al. Array programming with NumPy, https://doi.org/
10.48550/arXiv.2006.10256 (2020).
65. Chen, Y. et al. Semi-inductive dataset construction and framework
optimization for practical drug target interaction prediction with
ScopeDTI. SCOPE-DTI, https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.
17217391 (2025).
Acknowledgements
This work was financially supported by Shenzhen Science and Tech￾nology Program (JCYJ20220530143615035, H.-D.H); the Warshel Insti￾tute for Computational Biology funding from Shenzhen City and
Longgang District (LGKCSDPT2025001, A.W.); Shenzhen-Hong Kong
Cooperation Zone for Technology and Innovation (HZQB-KCZYB-
2020056, P2-2022-HDH-001-A, H.-D.H); Guangdong Young Scholar
Development Fund of Shenzhen Ganghong Group Co., Ltd.
(2021E0005, 2022E0035, H.-D.H); Phase III Government Matching Fund
of Shenzhen Ganghong Group Co., Ltd. (2023E0012, H.-D.H); Guang￾dong S&T Program (2024A0505050001 Y.-C.-D.L, 2024A0505050002
H.-Y.H); 2023 The Second Affiliated Hospital of the Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Shenzhen Joint Fund Project (HUUF-MS-202308 H.-Y.H,
HUUF-MS-202309 Y.-C.-D.L); Better Way Group - Chinese University of
Hong Kong (Shenzhen) Warshel Joint Laboratory for skin health and
active molecule innovation (2024E0087, H.-D.H); Shenzhen Science and
Technology Innovation Program (JCYJ20250604141235046 H.-
Y.H, JCYJ20250604141041017 Y.-C.-D.L). We would like to express our
sincere gratitude to the Vincent & Lily Woo Foundation for their gener￾ous support of the Vincent & Lily Woo Fellowship in Memory of Dr Albert
Wong (To Y.C.). This fellowship, endowed by the Vincent & Lily Woo
Foundation, is provided through MCMIA Foundation Limited, and we are
deeply grateful for their contribution to our research. We would also like
to thank Mr. Cheng Xiang for his valuable assistance in the wet lab
experiments, which greatly contributed to this work.
Author contributions
Y.C., X.J., Z.Z. (Ziyue Zhang), Z.Z. (Zihao Zhu), H.-Y.H. and H.-D.H. con￾ceived the study. Data collection was conducted by Y.C. and Z.Z. (Ziyue
Zhang), X.L., J.F., and Y.H. Y.C., Z.Z. (Ziyue Zhang), K.C. and A.W. designed
the methodology. Computational analysis was performed by Y.C. and
Z.Z. (Ziyue Zhang), Y.Z. (Yuming Zhou), K.C., C.S., X.L., S.C., and Y.H., with
interpretability validation contributed by Y.C., and Z.Z. (Ziyue Zhang).
Wetlab experiments were executed by X.J., Y.L., and Z.Z. (Zihao Zhu), Y.Z.
(Yangyi Zhang), K.W., Y.-C.-D.L. The original manuscript was drafted by
Y.C., X.J., and Z.Z. (Ziyue Zhang), C.S., H.-Y.H., S.-C.Y., T.Z., Y.-C.-D.L., and
H.-D.H. All authors reviewed and approved the final manuscript.
Competing interests
The authors declare no competing interests.
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 14
Additional information
Supplementary information The online version contains
supplementary material available at
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9.
Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to
Hsien-Da Huang.
Peer review information Nature Communications thanks Anna Rita Biz￾zarri and the other anonymous reviewer(s) for their contribution to the
peer review of this work. A peer review file is available.
Reprints and permissions information is available at
http://www.nature.com/reprints
Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jur￾isdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License,
which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and
reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate
credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the
Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed
material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted
material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third
party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative
Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the
material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons
licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or
exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly
from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/.
© The Author(s) 2025
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-66311-9
Nature Communications | (2025) 16:11509 15
